# DPIM-Shell
This is a repository of reduced-order models for nonlinear dynamics, combining the DPIM and a 7-parameter shell element. It includes code in both Julia and MATLAB. Julia is used for efficient implementation, while MATLAB offers easier debugging and an efficient solution method for the ROM equations based on the HBM.

In the Julia code, we follow the recent work on DPIM by Vizzaccaro et al. to intrinsically consider the non-autonomous term in the parameterized model order reduction process. Combined with a 7-parameter shell finite element method, the element modified by the EAS technique is written into the reduction process. The original example in the program comes from Jain, which is a unidirectional curved shell model that has been verified to have a 1:2 internal resonance relationship. We have also increased the complexity of the problem by considering a linearly varying thickness during the change in unidirectional curvature.

In the MATLAB code, we have implemented the DPIM process with the same functionality as in Julia. Through the MATLAB implementation, users can more easily understand the implementation of DPIM and the preliminary implementation of user algorithms. It is worth noting that since DPIM is a loop-intensive task, we have considered replacing the original m-file for high-order nonlinear internal forces with a mex file. Users can refer to the m-file with the same name in the folder to understand the finite element implementation process. In addition, we solve the nonlinear response of the reduced-order model based on our own developed Harmonic Balance Method, instead of the traditional collocation method. This is because for complex resonance problems, the results produced by MATCONT or COCO do not converge easily. Furthermore, we have also built in the open-source software NLvib developed by Krack et al. for solving, and users can choose the solution method themselves.
